DOCS-10254 revamped oauth policy (#339)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/external-oauth-2.0-token-validation-policy.adoc

|===
>s| Policy Name | OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement using Mule OAuth Provider Policy
>s|Summary      | Allows access only to authorized client applications
>s|Category | Security
>s| First Mule version available | v4.1.1
.4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
|400 - Invalid token
|401 - Unauthorized access or error when connecting to the authorization server
|403 - Forbidden, invalid client application credentials
|500 - Bad response from authorization server, or WSDL SOAP fault error.
|===

The  OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement policy, which exclusively works with the Mule OAuth provider, restricts access to a protected resource to only those HTTP requests that provide a valid Oauth2 token belonging to a client application with API access. The policy does not generate tokens but only validates them. 

This policy was designed to be used exclusively with xref:mule-oauth-provider-landing-page.adoc[Mule OAuth provider]. Using the policy with any other OAuth 2.0 provider (for example, Facebook, Google, or Azure) is not supported.

[[how-this-policy-works]]
== How This Policy Works

The following diagram illustrates the PingFederate OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement policy workflow:

> image:open-id-policy-workflow.png[PingFederate OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement Workflow]

Reviewer: wrong name i guess.

Author: Done! Thanks!

= OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement Using Mule OAuth Provider Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: oauth, raml, token, validation, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===

> >s| Policy Name | OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement using Mule OAuth Provider Policy

Reviewer 2: If this is all name, then Using should be init. capped as well.

Author: Done! Thanks!

>s|Summary      | Allows access only to authorized client applications
>s|Category | Security
>s| First Mule version available | v4.1.1
.4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
|400 - Invalid token
|401 - Unauthorized access or error when connecting to the authorization server
|403 - Forbidden, invalid client application credentials
|500 - Bad response from authorization server, or WSDL SOAP fault error.
|===

> The  OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement policy, which exclusively works with the Mule OAuth provider, restricts access to a protected resource to only those HTTP requests that provide a valid Oauth2 token belonging to a client application with API access. The policy does not generate tokens but only validates them. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement policy, which works exclusively with the Mule OAuth provider, restricts access to a protected resource to only those HTTP requests that provide a valid OAuth 2 token belonging to a client application with API access. The policy does not generate tokens but only validates them. 
```
If you mean to imply syntax, then `Oauth2`

Author: Done! thanks!

> This policy was designed to be used exclusively with xref:mule-oauth-provider-landing-page.adoc[Mule OAuth provider]. Using the policy with any other OAuth 2.0 provider (for example, Facebook, Google, or Microsoft Azure) is not supported.

Reviewer 2: present tense, parallelism:
```suggestion
This policy is designed to be used exclusively with xref:mule-oauth-provider-landing-page.adoc[Mule OAuth provider]. Using the policy with any other OAuth provider (for example, Facebook, Google, or Microsoft Azure) is not supported.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[how-this-policy-works]]
== How This Policy Works

> The following diagram illustrates the OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement using Mule OAuth Provider policy workflow:

Reviewer 2: ditto re. Using

Author: Done! Thanks!

image:open-id-policy-workflow.png[OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement Workflow]

As shown in the diagram:

. The user first sends an HTTP request to the API protected by the policy. 

> . The policy extracts the token from the request and sends it to the validation endpoint to verify the integrity of the token.

Reviewer 2: Consider implication:
```suggestion
. The policy extracts the token from the request and sends it to the validation endpoint.
```
Presumably, the validation endpoint...validates.

Author: Done! Thanks!

. The token validation endpoint returns token metadata, including the client ID of the client application.

> . Using a local database updated with contracts that were previously obtained from Anypoint Platform, the policy verifies whether the client ID has access to the API. 

Reviewer 2: To avoid past tense...:
```suggestion
. Using a local database updated with contracts previously obtained from Anypoint Platform, the policy verifies whether the client ID has access to the API. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. If all the validations are successfully completed, the request is allowed to reach the backend.

[[leveraging-TVE-information]]
=== Leveraging Token Validation Endpoint Information for Mule Applications

When a token validation endpoint successfully validates a token, certain information, such as configurable fields from Mule OAuth provider, are returned to the policy.

The following example illustrates the token validation response from the authorization server:

[source,text,linenums]
---
{
    "uid":"john.doe",
    "mail":"john.doe@example.com"
    "token_type":"Bearer",
    "expires_in":3600,
    "alias" : ["Jhon", "Jhonny", "Mr Doe"],
    "address" : {
        "city": "london", 
        "road": “abbey road"
    }
    
}
---
The fields returned by the OAuth provider are processed by the policy, propagated throughout the Mule flow, and finally exposed to the backend if the application requesting the access uses an HTTP requester.

=== Token Caching

> After the system validates a token, that token is cached (by default) until it expires, to improve the performance of the policy. In certain cases, such as in the case of revoked tokens, you might want to minimize or even disable caching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the system validates a token, that token is cached (by default), until it expires, thereby improving the performance of the policy. In certain cases, such as in the case of revoked tokens, you might want to minimize or even disable caching.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To control the time taken to cache the tokens before retrying a validation against the token validation endpoint, specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine:

Reviewer 2: Is this more clear?
```suggestion
To control the time that invalid tokens are cached before attempting revalidation, specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine:
```
I did not at first understand why one would retry validation if the token is validated, as in the previous sentence.

Author: To control the time taken to cache the tokens, before you attempt revalidating against the token validation endpoint, specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine:

Done! Thanks!

`anypoint.platform.max_federation_expiration_time=<expiration time in seconds; specify 0 to disable caching>`

Alternatively, you can specify this parameter in the `wrapper.conf` file.
 
To control the number of tokens that can be cached simultaneously, specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine:
 
`anypoint.platform.oauth2_cache_max_size=<amount of tokens to be cached; default value is 10.000>`

Alternatively, you can specify this parameter in the `wrapper.conf` file.

== Configuring the Expose Headers Option

> If you configured the `Expose Headers` option in the policy and if the application (for example, out-of-the-box proxies) uses the HTTP requester, the properties are redirected to the backend as headers. 

Reviewer 2: Is it necessary to name an example here? Is this the example that is going to be used going forward?

Reviewer 2: Is "out-of-the-box proxies" an application or more than one application?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> For each field, the original request to the protected resource is enriched with the HTTP headers using the format: X-AGW- + <key>=<value>. For the example response from the previous section, the following headers are added:

Reviewer 2: No need for a colon here:
```suggestion
For each field, the original request to the protected resource is enriched with the HTTP headers using the format X-AGW- + <key>=<value>. For the example response from the previous section, the following headers are added:
```
GLOBALLY avoid referring to any previous or next text; try to make subtopics or sections independent, to avoid issues when one text changes but the other does not.

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
---
X-AGW-uid=john.doe
X-AGW-mail=john.doe@example.com
X-AGW-token_type=Bearer
---

The propagated properties do not include the `scope` and `expires_in` objects and arrays.

For further processing within the flow, the original unparsed response from the validation endpoint is made available. The information is stored in an authentication object. 

For example, if a `mail` field is returned to the policy, you can access the value of this field by using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression:

`#[authentication.properties.userProperties.mail]`

You can obtain the client ID of the OAuth2 token by using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression:

`#[authentication.principal]`

== Communicating with the Token Validation Endpoint Using a Proxy

> You can enable the OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement using Mule OAuth Provider policy to use the gateway proxy settings by specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine: 

Reviewer 2: ditto Using

Reviewer 2: by specify > by specifying

Author: Done! Thanks!

`anypoint.platform.external_authentication_provider_enable_proxy_settings=<true|false(default)>`

When you enable this property, the policy uses the Mule proxy settings if you have configured the following parameters:

* `anypoint.platform.proxy_host=localhost`
* `anypoint.platform.proxy_port=8080`

=== Configuring Parameters for Mule Applications

When you apply the policy to your API from the UI, a list of parameters is displayed:

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="30,40,30"]
|===

> | Element | Description | Example

Reviewer 2: Are the Element column entries taken directly from the UI?
If so, use the presentation (capitalization) used there; if not, standardize capitalization among all.

| Scopes | Displays a space-separated list of supported scopes. | `READ`, `WRITE`, `READ and WRITE`
| Scope Validation Criteria | Determines if the token must contain all defined scopes or just one.

> Values: `Contains all scopes` and `Contains any scope` | 

Reviewer 2: parallelism
```suggestion
The values are `Contains all scopes` and `Contains any scope`. | 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> If the ‘Contains all scopes’ value is selected, the tokens with the scopes `READ` and `WRITE` are accepted. If the ‘Contains any scopes’ value is selected, the tokens with the scope `READ`, `WRITE`, and `READ AND WRITE` are accepted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the ‘Contains all scopes’ value is selected, the tokens with the scopes `READ` and `WRITE` are accepted. If the ‘Contains any scopes’ value is selected, the tokens with the scopes `READ`, `WRITE`, and `READ AND WRITE` are accepted.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Access Token validation endpoint url | The url of the Access Token validation endpoint of the External OAuth2 Provider. |The link to a mule provider hosted by the client: http://client-hostetd-mule-provider-url.cloudhub.io/validate

Reviewer 2: Consistent capitalization, parallelism
```suggestion
| Access Token validation endpoint url | The URL of the Access Token validation endpoint of the external OAuth 2 provider. |The link to a Mule provider hosted by the client http://client-hostetd-mule-provider-url.cloudhub.io/validate.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

| Validate TLS Certificate | Enables third-party authentication server TLS validation. | If selected, the communication with the token validation endpoint uses the TLS protocol.

> | Expose Headers | In a proxy scenario, specifies whether headers must be exposed in the request to the backend. User properties returned by the federation server are prefixed with 'X-AGW-' and sent as headers to the backend. | See the <<leveraging-TVE-information,Leveraging Token Validation Endpoint Information for Mule Applications>> for more information about this element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Expose Headers | In a proxy scenario, specifies whether headers must be exposed in the request to the backend. User properties returned by the federation server are prefixed with 'X-AGW-' and sent as headers to the backend. | See <<leveraging-TVE-information,Leveraging Token Validation Endpoint Information for Mule Applications>> for more information about this element.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Skip Client Id Validation | Skips the client application's API contract validation. | If selected, the Step 4 of the diagram in the <<how-this-policy-works,How This Policy Works>> section is skipped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Skip Client Id Validation | Skips the client application's API contract validation. | If selected, Step 4 of the diagram in the <<how-this-policy-works,How This Policy Works>> section is skipped.
```
Ditto previous comment about referring to other sections.

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===

== FAQs

> *Can I generate OAuth2 tokens with the policy?*

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY search for the characters "oauth" and verify that each represents the actual term presentation (OAuth, OAuth 2.0) or exactly what UI syntax has, in a syntax context and formatted as `syntax`.

Reviewer 2: Is this correct:
```suggestion
*Can I generate OAuth 2.0 tokens with the policy?*
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

No. The policy only validates the tokens.

> *Can I use other Oauth providers with the policy?*

Reviewer 2: ditto: OAuth
```suggestion
*Can I use other OAuth providers with the policy?*
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> No. This policy is designed to exclusively work with thexref:mule-oauth-provider-landing-page.adoc[Mule Oauth provider]. Using the policy with any other OAuth 2.0 provider (for example, Facebook, Google, or Azure) is not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No. This policy is designed to work exclusively with the xref:mule-oauth-provider-landing-page.adoc[Mule OAuth provider]. Using the policy with any other OAuth provider (for example, Facebook, Google, or Azure) is not supported.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> *Mule OAuth provider validation endpoint is rejecting the requests sent by the policy.*

Reviewer 2: Make this a question for a FAQ:
```suggestion
*What should I do if the Mule OAuth provider validation endpoint is rejecting the requests sent by the policy?*
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> If the validation endpoint is rejecting requests, verify whether the URL configured in the policy is reachable from the machine where the policy is running and that no authentication is required to successfully complete the request. If your use case requires the validation endpoint to be protected, you can switch to the xref:policy-openid-connect.adoc[Open ID connect policy].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the validation endpoint is rejecting requests, verify whether the URL configured in the policy is reachable from the machine where the policy is running and that no authentication is required to successfully complete the request. If your use case requires the validation endpoint to be protected, you can switch to the xref:policy-openid-connect.adoc[Open ID Connect policy].
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

*Where are the OAuth tokens cached?*

> OAuth2 tokens are cached only in memory and are never written to disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OAuth tokens are cached only in memory and are never written to disk.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> *Does the policy communicate with the Anypoint Platform on a per-request basis?*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Does the policy communicate with Anypoint Platform on a per-request basis?*
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

No, the policy uses client applications previously retrieved by the Mule runtime engine.

> This enables the policy to continue working even if the connection with the Management plane is lost. If you want the client application information that is written on disk to be encrypted, xref:api-gateway-encryption-mule4.adoc[configure gateway encryption in your runtime].

Reviewer 2: We do not capitalize the names of planes, per our source for product naming:
```suggestion
This enables the policy to continue working even if the connection with the management plane is lost. If you want the client application information that is written on disk to be encrypted, xref:api-gateway-encryption-mule4.adoc[configure gateway encryption in your runtime].
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> *Can I configure the Rate-Limiting SLA policy after I configure the OAuth 2.0 access token enforcement using Mule OAuth provider policy?*

Reviewer 2: Do you mean to name the access policy?
```suggestion
*Can I configure the Rate-Limiting SLA policy after I configure the OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement Using Mule OAuth Provider policy?*
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Yes, you can. Apply the Rate-Limiting SLA policy after the OAuth 2.0 access token enforcement using Mule OAuth provider policy and provide a `Client ID Expression` value using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression: 

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY standardize the presentation/capitalization of the enforcement using Mule OAuth policy

Author: Done! Thanks!

`#[authentication.principal]`

> Because the identity of the requester is already validated by the OAuth 2.0 access token enforcement using Mule OAuth provider policy, you can leave the `Client Secret Expression` field empty.

Reviewer 2: ditto

Author: Done! Thanks!
